>> Speaker 1: The first
part was all about 2D, and
now I wanna dive into more 3D stuff.
And in one sense this is kind
of maybe more technical, but
also because we're going to be using
libraries like three.js it might help
hold our hand through it a bit more.
Whereas in the first part we were
doing a lot of vanilla canvas API,
which is a bit tricky.
three.js has a lot of utilities built
into it to help us with things like math,
or things like 3D, things like
rendering and that kind of stuff.
So, I'll just show three.js and
just get you guys familiar with it.
>> Speaker 1: So if you go to threejs.org,
you can also find it on the workshop repo,
in the links here, it's just linked here,
and then there's a link to the docs.
And the docs is gonna be pretty handy
when we're doing this kind of stuff, but
you'll see three.js is a framework,
it's a library or an engine.
It's all JavaScript, and
it allows us to create all sorts of
different interesting 3D projects.
Not all of them are 3D,
sometimes you can use three.js
to create 2D art works as well.
It basically just allows us to
use more technically advanced
features of our computers,
rather than just drawing circles and
squares and shapes,
we can draw all sorts of stuff.
We can create very complex
scenes using 3D models or
using shaders, and
if you actually have some time,
it's definitely worth looking
through some of these projects.
Like this one here, Oat the Goat is
this beautiful animated storybook by I
think it's New Zealand.
I think it was either the government or
the school board or something like that.
They helped fund this project, and
it's all created with three.js and webGL.
And it's kinda like this interactive
storybook, mostly aimed at kids.
And it's part of a campaign
to avoid against bullying.
But it's just really beautiful animated
story book, all using the web,
all using webGL, and using the same
concepts we're going to be chatting about.
So definitely worth looking through some
of these projects in your own time and
getting a sense of the kind of different
projects and things you can do on the web.
And then you'll see in the documentation
there's all sorts of
different classes here.
It's a bit more familiar if you've
come from an object-oriented
programming background.
This API might be more familiar.
It's got classes that you
construct with a new keyword.
And then you set their properties and
you use them like that.
When it actually comes to looking
into geometries and stuff like that,
a lot of their documentation
has these interactive examples.
So, sometimes you'll see geometry, and
you can compare the different geometry
types and see what they look like.
So this is really handy to go through
these geometries and just compare them,
and you can pop this thing open here.
And you can get a sense of what
these different parameters do,
cause these are just the parameters
into the constructor, so you can set
things on a shape like the segments, and
you can see how that is gonna change.
So, this is really handy just to get
a sense of what's in the library.
So that's under geometries.
And then also,
if you scroll down you'll see materials.
They do something like that as well with
some of the materials, not all of them,
but some of them.
This is depth, this is normal, and we're
gonna chat about what all of these mean,
and what they sort of look like, and
why you would use one or the other.
Before I get too far, I just wanted to
point out a cool thing that happened today
before I get into the rest
of the three.js stuff.
So this is the first time in AI artwork,
and AI being artificial intelligence.
I forgot to mention this earlier, but
it just happened a couple hours ago.
It sold for $432,000 at Christie's.
So in terms of generative art, in terms
of computer art, in terms of any art
that has to do with computation and code,
and in this case, AI or machine learning,
or deep learning, this is a huge
sort of pivotal step forward for,
I would say like, computer artists
that are interested in computer art.
Because all the sudden, it's being taken
a bit more seriously by the art world.
The whole story around this is really
interesting too, so if you want to read
about AI, it's actually an unfortunate
story because the people that created this
particular portrait, they basically
just cloned a GitHub repo, and they
ended up re running the code and producing
this image, and then printing it.
And they ended up selling it at
Christie's Auction House for 400K.
So, I just wanted to bring that in before
we start getting too far into the stuff,
because it's a really pivotal moment,
and it just happened like an hour or
two ago or something like that.
And it's just, it's gonna be important for
creative computing in the future.